= Jazor

Jazor (JSON razor) is a simple command line JSON parsing tool.

== Installation

  gem install jazor

== Usage

  jazor [options] [source] [expression ...]

=== Options

See the *--help* command line option.

=== Sources

The *source* argument refers to a file, URL or string containing a JSON object.
Since attempts to implement a full-featured HTTP client within Jazor would have
been futile, Jazor also accepts input from STDIN. This means if you ever need
to use an advanced HTTP option that Jazor doesn't implement, you can always use
a *real* HTTP client (e.g. {cURL}[http://curl.haxx.se/]) and simply pipe the
output to Jazor.

=== Expressions

Jazor accepts one or more Ruby *expressions* which are simply eval'ed within
the context of your JSON object. After Jazor parses your JSON input into native
Ruby data types (Hash, Array, etc.), these expressions are used to slice and
dice the data any way you want. The results will be "pretty printed" to STDOUT.

Note that hash keys can be accessed via standard Ruby (e.g. foo['bar'],
foo.fetch('bar'), etc.) or Javascript (e.g. foo.bar) syntax.

=== Expression Testing

Expression testing (*--test*) allows you to test the "truthiness" of your
expression results. If any expression returns a "falsy" value, Jazor will exit
with a non-zero return code. This is useful for calling Jazor from within shell
scripts.

== Examples

  $ jazor http://github.com/api/v2/json/commits/list/mconigliaro/jazor/master commits.count
  16

  $ curl --silent http://github.com/api/v2/json/commits/list/mconigliaro/jazor/master | jazor commits.last.message
  initial commit

  $ jazor '{ "foo": "abc", "bar": [1, 2, 3] }' 'foo.split(//)'
  ["a", "b", "c"]

  $ jazor '{ "foo": "abc", "bar": [1, 2, 3] }' 'bar.inject { |memo,obj| memo + obj }'
  6

  $ jazor '[1, 2, 3, 4, 5]' 'select(&:even?)'
  [2, 4]

  $ jazor '[1, 2, 3, 4, 5]' 'select(&:odd?)'
  [1, 3, 5]

  $ jazor '["a", "b", "c", "d", "e"]' 'self[1..3]'
  ["b", "c", "d"]

  $ jazor '[1, 2, 3, 4, 5]' "'odds=%s; evens=%s' % [select(&:odd?).join(','), select(&:even?).join(',')]"
  odds=1,3,5; evens=2,4

== Authors

* Michael Paul Thomas Conigliaro <mike [at] conigliaro [dot] org>

== Contributers

* {Daniel Hopkins}[https://github.com/danielhopkins]
